Pressure from the world can erode our determination to do what is right, at times even a mature
Christian may be inclined to do what is bad.
Please find Romans 7, 21 through 23.
The Apostle Paul was certainly a mature, but notice what he said of himself as we read
Romans 7, 21 through 23.
I find then this law, in my case, when I wish to do what is right, what is bad is present
with me.
I really delight in the law of God according to the man I am within, but I see in my body
another law warring against the law of my mind and leading me captive to sin's law
that is in my body.
Like Paul, we might find that we have a war or a struggle inside us as we fight against
the law of sin.
I ever like Paul, we know that for us to please Jehovah, we must live in harmony with his
standards.
Look at 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10.
What are some of Jehovah's moral standards?
Notice the list of moral issues that we choose not to succumb to.
At 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10, it says, or do you not know that unrighteous people will
not inherit God's kingdom, do not be misled?
Those who are sexually immoral, idolaters of delters, men who submit to homosexual acts,
men who practice homosexuality, thieves, greedy people, truckers, revilers, and extortioners
will not inherit God's kingdom.
We must be firmly convinced that these moral standards of Jehovah are right and beneficial.
Why can we have faith in these standards?
To find out, find the Isaiah 48 to 17.
Here you will see we can have faith in God's standards because they always benefit us.
Isaiah 48, 17 says, this is what Jehovah says, your repurchaser, the holy one of Israel,
I Jehovah am your God, the one teaching you to benefit yourself, the one guiding you in
the way you should walk.
When you see the point, Jehovah is teaching us to benefit ourselves.
We can have faith in his standards of right and wrong.
They are unchanging and they produce good results under all circumstances and in all cultures.
Consider God's standard for marriage.
Jehovah created marriage as a permanent, loving union between a man and a woman.
Jehovah gave Adam and wife, Eve, not Eve and B and D, just Eve.
He told them, be fruitful and become many, feel the earth.
Let's look at 1 Corinthians 6, 18.
It is making the point that sex outside of marriage is prohibited by Jehovah.
1 Corinthians 6, 18 says, free from sexual immorality.
Every other sin that a man may commit is outside his body.
But whoever practices sexual immorality is sending against his own body.
When family members followed Jehovah's standards, the family is secure, stable and happy.
In the following video, note how a couple benefited from applying God's moral standards.
We met at a party when I was in the military.
I was on the dance floor and I saw Frinchie and I was like, oh, I'm going to talk to this
girl right here.
The whole time we were just smiling at each other.
This instant attraction, it was mutual.
Gradually, we were living together and a few months go by and things are going well.
And then I find out I'm pregnant and he left.
I was shocked though I shouldn't have been, but I was shocked.
And truthfully, I was scared like, what am I going to do now?
I felt like a failure and I kept asking myself, how did I let this happen?
I knew that I had to be there and I wanted to be there.
I just didn't know how.
We prayed together for the first time as a couple.
That was a Friday night, Saturday morning, we had a knock on the door.
We decided to have a Bible study.
They had to study the chapter on family life and marriage.
At that moment, I knew that I wanted to have our relationship be honorable before Jehovah.
You learned that Jehovah meant for marriages to be a permanent bond.
The insecurities of every disagreement, ending in a breakup or divorce, all of that went
away.
We started to see Jehovah's training in practical ways.
Just learning how to be a husband who respected and cared for his wife.
We became partners, a team, a compliment.
And that was only because Jehovah taught us how to do it.
Though it was difficult at the outset, we made that decision to dedicate our life to
do Jehovah's will and we got baptized together.
We've been married 25 years and the insecurities are gone.
I focus on all the blessings that have come, just for keeping Jehovah in our life.
And that's the best feeling in the world.
You can go out on your own, but you'll never find the joy, you'll never find the peace,
you'll never find the security that comes from doing it Jehovah's way.
It was only after coming to know Jehovah and having faith in his standards that the
couple came to have a stable and enduring marriage of 25 years.
What about us?
How can we strengthen our faith in God's moral standards?
Contemplate the benefits of obeying God's moral standards and the consequences of disobeying
them.
No two Bible principles, Deuteronomy 3229 says, be wise, ponder over this.
Think about the outcome.
In other words, contemplate the benefits of obeying God's moral standards.
In contrast, the consequences of disobeying God's moral standards can be severe.
Deuteronomy 6.7 and 8 says, so with a view to his flesh and rep corruption from the flesh.
The world's entertainment industry often ignores this fact.
Your faith in God's standards will grow as you experience the benefits of living by them.
obeying God's moral standards protects us physically, emotionally and spiritually.
Jehovah's standards make us wise so that we do not have to learn from painful experiences
to illustrate.
You're driving and you see a sign.
It says school speed limit 15 miles an hour.
But if you did not adhere to that standard of law, suppose you are driving at 50 miles
an hour, you hit a child crossing the road.
The consequence for not obeying the standard?
That would be an extremely painful experience.
Jehovah's standards protect us from the pain.
This concludes by sharing some verses from Psalm 19.
Please turn there.
This Psalm is speaking about Jehovah's standards, his laws, and reminders.
We will first read Psalm 19.7.
The law of Jehovah is perfect, restoring strength.
The reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy, making the inexperienced one wise.
We do not need to remain naive and inexperienced.
We become wise.
Now read with me verses 8 and 9.
The orders from Jehovah are righteous, causing the heart to rejoice.
The commandment of Jehovah is clean, making the eyes shine.
The fear of Jehovah is pure, lasting forever.
The judgments of Jehovah are true, altogether righteous.
Living by God's standards brings approval from Jehovah.
We enjoy a clean conscience and a good relationship with Him.
Verse 11.
By then your servant has been warned in keeping them there is a large reward.
It says a large reward awaits us.
Half faith in God's moral standards obey them and become wise.
They will protect you physically, emotionally, and spiritually.
You will have a clean conscience and Jehovah's approval.
And in the end, ever last in life.
Brother Garrett Loesch of the governing body will now present the final talk of this symposium.
Why we have faith in God's love.